# Snow-Crab-Indicator-Development
This repository contains script and output for the development of ecosystem indicators for the 2022 Bering Sea snow crab Ecosystem and Socioeconomic Profile (ESP) and the 2023 ESP report card update. The full ESP can be found here: https://meetings.npfmc.org/CommentReview/DownloadFile?p=fb2b5efa-a902-4945-bc56-a9bd31efdb14.pdf&fileName=EBS%20Snow%20Crab%20ESP%202022.pdf

The most recent 2023 ESP report card is a full appendix in the Bering Sea snow crab stock assessment here: [https://meetings.npfmc.org/CommentReview/DownloadFile?p=91463040-bc4f-49ff-82e6-33618e0faeee.pdf&fileName=C1%20BBRKC%20SAFE.pdf](https://meetings.npfmc.org/CommentReview/DownloadFile?p=62f8b7ae-5eb7-49fd-a2bc-051434c8bc19.pdf&fileName=C1%20EBS%20Snow%20Crab%20SAFE.pdf)

# Methodology 
The ecosystem and socioeconomic profile or ESP is a standardized framework for compiling and evaluating relevant stock-specific ecosystem and socioeconomic indicators and communicating linkages and potential drivers of the stock within the stock assessment process. The ESP process creates a traceable pathway from the initial development of indicators to management advice and serves as an on-ramp for developing ecosystem-linked stock assessments. 

# NOAA License
This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

Software code created by U.S. Government employees is not subject to copyright in the United States (17 U.S.C. §105). The United States/Department of Commerce reserve all rights to seek and obtain copyright protection in countries other than the United States for Software authored in its entirety by the Department of Commerce. To this end, the Department of Commerce hereby grants to Recipient a royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use, copy, and create derivative works of the Software outside of the United States.

